---
layout: post
title: Jibo
date: 2021-04-15 15:30:00 -0400
categories:
tags:
- Ezra
- Phineas
---

We signed the kids up for an MIT Robotics Lap experiment that turns out to be playing a video game where an
animated "Jibo" robot tells you instructions.

Ezra speed-taps past all the instructions and informs the grad student about all the bugs he finds (including
that speed-tapping through the instructions causes them to garble). He spends the first level figuring out
that the trampoline is an effective item and then uses only the trampoline to quickly solve all the other
levels.

Phineas reads all the instructions aloud, interjecting commentary: "'Hi, I'm Jibo! When you're playing the
game, I might have something to say, so please listen carefully--' I _always_ listen carefully!" He tries
all the items the game suggests, but ultimately finds that trampolines are the best item for each level.

At the end of the game, the grad student asks questions. Ezra is happy to grant that Jibo had "a bunch of 
good ideas" (though he doesn't name any). He is pleased to learn that the grad student is also the author
of the game and asks her about some technical details. He also talks about how he thinks it's fun when
games have a few visible glitches because they can be funny.

Phineas doesn't think that Jibo had any ideas because Jibo is not alive. He also points out that _he_ is
the one who solved the whole game and Jibo did not really help. ("I'm _quite_ smart!") He does not have
any questions for the researcher.

Both kids suggest that the main game improvement would be for Jibo to do all its talking up front and not
interrupt mid-game.

